# Stormify

Stormify Documentation: <br />
<br />Stormify is a command based application that creates a unique playlist for you based on the weather outside! I personally have the most fun with command line programs because of how easy they are to use on a whim. The means in which you can use my project is quite simple, but I will try to be as explicit as possible. With the correct dependencies imported you should be able to simply write in the command line the name of the .py file with two additional arguments. The first argument is your Spotify username and the second is your current zip code. I have parameters set that make sure a valid zip code is set. Also, if you do not input a valid Spotify username you fetch the url needed in the next step. <br />
<br />An example of a command line argument is 'check.py my_username 10605' In this, two apis are implemented. The first of which accesses your Spotify library. Spotify utilizes an Oauth2 authentication process, which figuring out honestly took up the bulk of my time. You will be directed to a page where you must log in, and after, you are prompted to input the url that you were directed to back in the command line. The API then fetches your saved songs from Spotify (note: a limitation is Spotify's API only allows for everyday developers to fetch up to your 50 most recently saved songs at a time). This was saved into a dictionary and I was able to fetch the sound analysis stored by Spotify through keys. Some qualities that I was able to access for each song was valence (higher valence means the song is happier), acousticness, instrumentalness, danceability etc. <br />
<br />After this, I applied the conditions surrounding weather in order to narrow down the song list. This utilizes the weather API that fetches the weather data based on your unique zip code input. From here, I sorted the various weather conditions categorically into seven groups (Thunderstorms, drizzle, snow, clear, rain, clouds, atmospheric, and extreme weather) and gave them new ids as is spelled out in the code comments. I logged each song and its qualities into a dictionary. I once again fetched the ids, after the conditions were set and appended them into a list. I was able to export that list of songs into a Spotify playlist! The playlist is automatically put into your Spotify library with the description of the weather and the date as the title. <br />
<br />I would also like to note that I tried EXTREMELY hard to put this in a flask application. Sadly, the Spotify authentication proved to be a bit too much for flask on its own. I really tried to get Spotify to authenticate through flask and looked through and tried out various pieces of documentation however it never seemed to work out with the authentication that Spotify needed. In all though I found this very rewarding and now I have a fun little command line app I can use when I am too lazy to make a playlist.
